So back to our discussion.
I said that statistics, historically
transition to machine learning and
this transition was, I'd say basically
with the increased complexity.
While statistics is trying to simplify
everything by reducing the information
you have.
And when I'm talking about information,
let's say,
we asked 100 people about
their shoe sizes, right?
But reduced all of this information
to just average size, so
that was the reduction.
Machine learning is operating
with the distributions.
So for instance, machine learning can
help you to actually find not just
only the average but
the distribution of the sizes, right?
So for instance, if that's the size and
let's say we can somehow figure out
that we do have two local maximus,
for instance,
at size eight and at size 11.
In this case, probably it's better for
me just to well,
create shoes of that
size eight than size 11.
So machine learning is kind of
doing this distribution analysis.
And as I showed deep learning simply
was a progression of machine learning.
So we're just playing around
with a lot of those neurons.
We figure out the way how to, we'll
learn this information, transformation.
If you think about it conceptually
even with deep learning,
we're doing this
information transformation.
So our input signal was the image itself,
right?
It was those old pixels,
intensity on the pixels.
But in the end, we reduced or kinda
shrink this information to just one beat,
with a label like if we're looking
at the hotdog or not hotdog, right?
Then that will be just your
last neuron activated or not.
So deep learning is doing that, but
at the same time when we talk
about artificial intelligence, AI.
At least when I'm talking about AI,
I'm thinking something
towards like Turing test.
I want my computer to be able to think.
What does it mean to think?
It means to somehow,
maybe even create things,
your creativity is definitely something
we associating with the intelligence.
But our deep learning models right
now they do not create anything,
it's simply kind of reducing
the formation, right?
So we taking the images on down just say,
if we're looking at the hotdog or
not hotdog worse, is it a spam or
not spam if we're providing emails.
So the next step with AI is what
we do with those deep learnings.
So for instance,
remember with deep learning we
have this almost triangle diagram, right?
Where we just provided the inputs,
some inputs and
then reduce it to the one neuron,
or several neurons.
Interestingly enough,
you can do kind of the reverse operation.
You can simply take this neuron and
by providing some of
the informations we
collected in those layers.
You can recreate some things.
So for instance, you can trim your
model to redraw images for you.
And one interesting example that's
the notebook we have actually.
And you know what, I will switch to it and
demonstrate to you exactly what I mean.
So in our notebooks,
if you look at creating stylist for
images, our notebook 0104.
We can even execute it right now.
What we're doing we simply
grabbing pre trained model
and we will need to input images.
So let's say we can just take
downtown Minneapolis, right?
That's the image.
And style image right here.
And what will happen,
let's go back to our diagram.
When we'll be training our
model on our stylized image,
we can just see what neurons were
activated on the first lower levels.
Maybe couple of first layers.
The idea is that our
neurons might somehow graph
the style of drawing
from that original image,
original picture, or drawing in our case.
But then we can use second picture
to do kind of the same thing but
capture the weight and all the activating
pathways from the last layers.
And then when we are gonna be
recreating the image, we'll just
substitute those first layers where we
have the information about the style.
And we're gonna put it right here.
So it means that the main information
kind of what objects we're looking at
will be preserved from the original image,
in our case, downtown Minneapolis.
But this style will be modified to
whatever style we have in our drawing.
So the end result will basically be
stylized picture of downtown Minneapolis.